README.md, before:

## 📊 Banzai Marketing Campaign Insights Dashboard

### 🚀 Overview

This project is a **Marketing Campaign Insights Dashboard** designed to showcase data-driven marketing insights and ROI analysis. Built with Banzai's preferred tech stack, the demo highlights key marketing metrics in an interactive and intuitive interface.

### 🏗️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** Next.js (React-based framework)
- **Backend & API:** tRPC (for seamless API calls)
- **Database:** MongoDB (stores campaign data)
- **Type Safety:** TypeScript
- **Deployment:** CI/CD using GitHub Actions

### 🎯 Features

- **Marketing Data Ingestion** – Simulated data for ad spend, clicks, and conversions
- **Real-time Metrics Visualization** – ROI, conversion rates, cost-per-click, and trends
- **Performance Insights** – Flags underperforming campaigns and suggests improvements

### ⚡ Why This Demo?

This project aligns with Banzai’s focus on marketing insights and ROI optimization while demonstrating expertise in their preferred tech stack.

Here's the newly formatted section for your README:

---

## 📈 Key Marketing Metrics

Understanding key performance metrics is crucial for optimizing marketing campaigns. Below are the core metrics used in this dashboard:

### 1️⃣ Clicks

🔹 **Definition:** The number of times users click on an ad, email link, or marketing campaign link.  
🔹 **Why It Matters:** Indicates how many people are engaging with the ad.

**Example:**  
A company runs a LinkedIn ad for a webinar:

- **Impressions:** 1,000 people see the ad.
- **Clicks:** 100 people click on it.

**Click-Through Rate (CTR) Formula:**

\[
CTR = \left( \frac{\text{Clicks}}{\text{Impressions}} \right) \times 100
\]

**CTR Calculation:**

\[
CTR = \left( \frac{100}{1000} \right) \times 100 = 10\%
\]

---

### 2️⃣ Spend

🔹 **Definition:** The total amount of money spent on an ad campaign.  
🔹 **Why It Matters:** Helps businesses track costs and determine ROI.

**Example:**

- A company spends **$500** on Facebook ads.
- The ad gets **250 clicks**.

**Cost Per Click (CPC) Formula:**

\[
CPC = \frac{\text{Spend}}{\text{Clicks}}
\]

**CPC Calculation:**

\[
CPC = \frac{500}{250} = 2.00 \quad \text{(i.e., $2 per click)}
\]

---

### 3️⃣ Conversions

🔹 **Definition:** The number of users who take a desired action after clicking the ad (e.g., signing up, making a purchase, booking a demo).  
🔹 **Why It Matters:** Conversions measure real business results, not just engagement.

**Example:**

- From **250 clicks**, **20 users** sign up for a free trial.

**Conversion Rate (CR) Formula:**

\[
CR = \left( \frac{\text{Conversions}}{\text{Clicks}} \right) \times 100
\]

**CR Calculation:**

\[
CR = \left( \frac{20}{250} \right) \times 100 = 8\%
\]

---

### 🎯 Bonus: How These Metrics Relate to ROI (Return on Investment)

Marketers need to evaluate whether their ad spend is generating revenue.

**ROI Formula:**

\[
ROI = \left( \frac{\text{Revenue from Conversions} - \text{Spend}}{\text{Spend}} \right) \times 100
\]

**Example:**

- The company spends **$500** on ads.
- The campaign generates **$2,000** in sales.

**ROI Calculation:**

\[
ROI = \left( \frac{2000 - 500}{500} \right) \times 100 = 300\%
\]

🔹 **A positive ROI (100%+) means the campaign is profitable.**  
🔹 **A negative ROI means the company is losing money.**

---

This section provides a clear and structured explanation of essential marketing metrics, making it easy for users to understand their significance and apply them effectively. 🚀

Commit message:

Format marketing metrics formulas in README.md for improved clarity and GitHub display.

README.md, after:

## 📊 Banzai Marketing Campaign Insights Dashboard

### 🚀 Overview

This project is a **Marketing Campaign Insights Dashboard** designed to showcase data-driven marketing insights and ROI analysis. Built with Banzai's preferred tech stack, the demo highlights key marketing metrics in an interactive and intuitive interface.

### 🏗️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** Next.js (React-based framework)
- **Backend & API:** tRPC (for seamless API calls)
- **Database:** MongoDB (stores campaign data)
- **Type Safety:** TypeScript
- **Deployment:** CI/CD using GitHub Actions

### 🎯 Features

- **Marketing Data Ingestion** – Simulated data for ad spend, clicks, and conversions
- **Real-time Metrics Visualization** – ROI, conversion rates, cost-per-click, and trends
- **Performance Insights** – Flags underperforming campaigns and suggests improvements

### ⚡ Why This Demo?

This project aligns with Banzai’s focus on marketing insights and ROI optimization while demonstrating expertise in their preferred tech stack.

Here's your updated **README** with all formulas formatted in inline code for proper display on GitHub:

---

## 📈 Key Marketing Metrics

Understanding key performance metrics is crucial for optimizing marketing campaigns. Below are the core metrics used in this dashboard:

### 1️⃣ Clicks

🔹 **Definition:** The number of times users click on an ad, email link, or marketing campaign link.  
🔹 **Why It Matters:** Indicates how many people are engaging with the ad.

**Example:**  
A company runs a LinkedIn ad for a webinar:

- **Impressions:** 1,000 people see the ad.
- **Clicks:** 100 people click on it.

**Click-Through Rate (CTR) Formula:**

```
CTR = (Clicks / Impressions) × 100
```

**CTR Calculation:**

```
CTR = (100 / 1000) × 100 = 10%
```

---

### 2️⃣ Spend

🔹 **Definition:** The total amount of money spent on an ad campaign.  
🔹 **Why It Matters:** Helps businesses track costs and determine ROI.

**Example:**

- A company spends **$500** on Facebook ads.
- The ad gets **250 clicks**.

**Cost Per Click (CPC) Formula:**

```
CPC = Spend / Clicks
```

**CPC Calculation:**

```
CPC = 500 / 250 = $2.00 per click
```

---

### 3️⃣ Conversions

🔹 **Definition:** The number of users who take a desired action after clicking the ad (e.g., signing up, making a purchase, booking a demo).  
🔹 **Why It Matters:** Conversions measure real business results, not just engagement.

**Example:**

- From **250 clicks**, **20 users** sign up for a free trial.

**Conversion Rate (CR) Formula:**

```
CR = (Conversions / Clicks) × 100
```

**CR Calculation:**

```
CR = (20 / 250) × 100 = 8%
```

---

### 🎯 Bonus: How These Metrics Relate to ROI (Return on Investment)

Marketers need to evaluate whether their ad spend is generating revenue.

**ROI Formula:**

```
ROI = ((Revenue from Conversions - Spend) / Spend) × 100
```

**Example:**

- The company spends **$500** on ads.
- The campaign generates **$2,000** in sales.

**ROI Calculation:**

```
ROI = ((2000 - 500) / 500) × 100 = 300%
```

🔹 **A positive ROI (100%+) means the campaign is profitable.**  
🔹 **A negative ROI means the company is losing money.**

---
